Information about the recommendation system part 2

Here at Renting Made Easy we incorporate a second recommendation technology into our system architecture that uses User Collaborative Filtering. Click data is retrieved in order to find users who are most similar to you. The click data represents the number of times each user has clicked on each property. We concatenate the number of clicks per property for each user into patterns. Then, compare these patterns to one another to find your recommended users. The patterns are compared to one another using the cosine similarity formula. Finally, we take the most clicked-on properties from your most similar users and display them to you.

Information about the nearby service scores

Nearby service category scores -
The information to generate the nearby service scores is retrieved from Google. This information consists of multiple amenities per neighbourhood. The number of amenities per neighbourhood are standardised using z-score standardisation. This is a statistical technique where a score for each neighbourhood is created based on all of the other neighbourhood scores. We take your service preferences from your user profile, and use them to adapt these scores, so that each score is tailored to you. 

Nearby service overall score -
The overall service score is generated by summing the category scores for each neighbourhood, and then again applying z-score standardisation to create a final score, where this score is based-off the values of each of the other overall neighbourhood scores.

Crime safety score -
Similar to how the nearby service scores are calculated, the crime safety score takes official crime data from Open Baltimore, gets the count of each crime per neighbourhood, and again applies z-score standardisation to calculate a crime safety score which is based-off all of the other neighbourhood crime safety scores. The official data used to generate our crime safety scores can be found here: https://data.baltimorecity.gov/datasets/baltimore::part-1-crime-data/explore
